.\" Man page for xpra launcher
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Antoine Martin <antoine@devloop.org.uk>
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Serviware, Arthur Huillet <arthur.huillet@free.fr>
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" license, either version 2 or (at your option) any later version.
.\" See the file COPYING for details.
.\"
.TH XPRA_LAUNCHER 1
.SH NAME
xpra_launcher \- User interface to connect to a Xpra session
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.HP \w'xpra_launcher\ 'u
\fBxpra_launcher\fP
[\fIFILENAME\fP]\fB
.PD
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxpra_launcher\fP is a tool which enables you to connect to a remote \fBxpra\fP(1)
session using a graphical user interface. It is able to read a pre-configured session
file.

When called without \fIFILENAME\fP, \fBxpra_launcher\fP will spawn a GTK window
allowing you to set the connection parameters easily.
If \fIFILENAME\fP is specified, the parameters in the GUI will be set to the values
specified in the session file. Additionally, if the session file contains the special parameter
"\fIautoconnect\fP", \fBxpra_launcher\fP will skip displaying the parameters window and
will establish the connection directly.

.SH SESSION FILE
The format of the session file passed to xpra_launcher as a parameter is a series of \fBparameter\fP = \fIvalue\fP lines.
Most of the options available through the \fBxpra\fP command line are also available in the session file.
For instance:
.TP
\fBhost\fP
Specify the remote host to connect to.
.TP
\fBport\fP
Specify the remote port to connect to.
.TP
\fBencoding\fP
Specify the encoding type to use: \fIh264\fP, \fIjpeg\fP, \fIpng\fP, ... See xpra \-\-help for the full list of available
encodings.
.TP
\fBquality\fP
Set the image quality when using lossy encodings. Values are 1-100.
.TP
\fBmode\fP
Connection mode: \fItcp\fP or \fIssh\fP.
.TP
\fBautoconnect\fP
Specify whether to establish connection immediately (\fITrue\fP) or simply pre-fill the parameters for the user to
review (\fIFalse\fP, the default).

.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBxpra\fP(1)
