.\" Man page for xpra
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Nathaniel Smith <njs@pobox.com>
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Antoine Martin <antoine@devloop.org.uk>
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" license, either version 2 or (at your option) any later version.
.\" See the file COPYING for details.
.\"
.TH XPRA 1
.SH NAME
xpra \- viewer for remote, persistent X applications
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.HP \w'xpra\ 'u
\fBxpra\fP \fBstart\fP \fI:DISPLAY\fP
[\fB\-\-start\-child\fP=\fICHILD\fP]\fB .\|.\|.\fP
[\fB\-\-exit\-with\-children\fP] [\fB\-\-no\-daemon\fP]
[\fB\-\-use\-display\fP]
[\fB\-\-xvfb\fP=\fICMD\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-pulseaudio\fP]
[\fB\-\-pulseaudio\-command\fP=\fISERVER START COMMAND\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-clipboard\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-cursors\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-notifications\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-system\-tray\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-bell\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-speaker\fP]
[\fB\-\-speaker\-codec\fP=\fICODEC\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-microphone\fP]
[\fB\-\-microphone\-codec\fP=\fICODEC\fP]
[\fB\-\-enable-sharing\fP]
[\fB\-\-bind\-tcp\fP=\fI[HOST]:PORT\fP]
[\fB\-\-password\-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP]
[\fB\-\-dpi\fP=\fIVALUE\fP]
[\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP]
.HP
\fBxpra\fP \fBattach\fP
[\fI:DISPLAY\fP | \fIssh:USER@HOST:DISPLAY\fP | \fIssh:HOST:DISPLAY\fP | \fItcp:HOST:PORT\fP]
[\fB\-zLEVEL | \-\-compress\fP=\fILEVEL\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-mmap\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-windows\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-clipboard\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-cursors\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-notifications\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-system\-tray\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-bell\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-keyboard\-sync\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-tray\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-speaker\fP]
[\fB\-\-speaker\-codec\fP=\fICODEC\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-microphone\fP]
[\fB\-\-microphone\-codec\fP=\fICODEC\fP]
[\fB\-\-delay\-tray\fP]
[\fB\-\-encoding\fP=\fIENCODING\fP]
[\fB\-\-quality\fP=\fIQUALITY\fP]
[\fB\-\-speed\fP=\fISPEED\fP]
[\fB\-\-auto\-refresh\-delay\fP=\fIDELAY\fP]
[\fB\-\-max\-bandwidth\fP=\fIBW\fP]
[\fB\-\-key\-shortcut\fP=\fIkey:action\fP]
[\fB\-\-readonly\fP]
[\fB\-\-enable-sharing\fP]
[\fB\-\-title\-suffix\fP=\fIVALUE\fP]
[\fB\-\-title\fP=\fIVALUE\fP]
[\fB\-\-window\-icon\fP=\fIFILENAME\fP]
[\fB\-\-tray\-icon\fP=\fIfilename\fP]
[\fB\-\-ssh\fP=\fICMD\fP] [\fB\-\-remote\-xpra\fP=\fICMD\fP]
[\fB\-\-password\-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP]
[\fB\-\-dpi\fP=\fIVALUE\fP]
[\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP]
[\fB\-\-mmap\-group\fP]
[\fB\-\-enable\-pings\fP]
[\fB\-\-encryption\fP=\fICIPHER\fP]
.HP
.HP \w'xpra\ 'u
\fBxpra\fP \fBshadow\fP \fI:DISPLAY\fP
[\fB\-\-start\-child\fP=\fICHILD\fP]\fB .\|.\|.\fP
[\fB\-\-exit\-with\-children\fP] [\fB\-\-no\-daemon\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-clipboard\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-notifications\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-bell\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-speaker\fP]
[\fB\-\-speaker\-codec\fP=\fICODEC\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-microphone\fP]
[\fB\-\-microphone\-codec\fP=\fICODEC\fP]
[\fB\-\-bind\-tcp\fP=\fI[HOST]:PORT\fP]
[\fB\-\-password\-file\fP=\fIfilename\fP]
[\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP]
.HP

\fBxpra\fP \fBstop\fP [\fI:DISPLAY\fP | \fIssh:[USER@]HOST:DISPLAY\fP |
\fItcp:HOST:PORT\fP] [\fB\-\-ssh=CMD\fP] [\fB\-\-remote\-xpra\fP=\fICMD\fP]
[\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP]
.HP
\fBxpra\fP \fBdetach\fP [\fI:DISPLAY\fP | \fIssh:[USER@]HOST:DISPLAY\fP |
\fItcp:HOST:PORT\fP] [\fB\-\-ssh\fP=\fICMD\fP] [\fB\-\-remote\-xpra\fP=\fICMD\fP]
[\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP]
.HP
\fBxpra\fP \fBscreenshot\fP \fIfilename\fP [\fI:DISPLAY\fP | \fIssh:[USER@]HOST:DISPLAY\fP |
\fItcp:HOST:PORT\fP] [\fB\-\-ssh\fP=\fICMD\fP] [\fB\-\-remote\-xpra\fP=\fICMD\fP]
[\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP]
.HP
\fBxpra\fP \fBversion\fP [\fI:DISPLAY\fP | \fIssh:[USER@]HOST:DISPLAY\fP |
\fItcp:HOST:PORT\fP] [\fB\-\-ssh\fP=\fICMD\fP] [\fB\-\-remote\-xpra\fP=\fICMD\fP]
[\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP]
.HP
\fBxpra\fP \fBinfo\fP [\fI:DISPLAY\fP | \fIssh:[USER@]HOST:DISPLAY\fP |
\fItcp:HOST:PORT\fP] [\fB\-\-ssh\fP=\fICMD\fP] [\fB\-\-remote\-xpra\fP=\fICMD\fP]
[\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP]
.HP
\fBxpra\fP \fBlist\fP [\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP]
.HP
\fBxpra\fP \fBupgrade\fP \fI:DISPLAY\fP [...any options accepted by
\fBxpra start\fP...]
.PD
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xpra is a tool which allows you to run X programs \(em usually on a
remote host \(em and then direct their display to your local machine,
disconnect from these programs, and reconnect from the same or another
machine, all without losing any state.  It differs from standard X
forwarding in that it allows disconnection and reconnection without
disrupting the forwarded application; it differs from VNC and similar
remote display technologies in that xpra is \fIrootless\fP: i.e.,
applications forwarded by xpra appear on your desktop as normal
windows managed by your window manager, rather than being all "trapped
in a box together".  Xpra also uses a custom protocol that is
self-tuning and relatively latency-insensitive, and thus is usable
over network connections that are too slow or unreliable for standard
X forwarding.
Xpra can also be used to shadow an existing X11 display.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP \w'xpra\ 'u
\fBxpra start\fP \fI:7\fP
Start an xpra server using display number \fI:7\fP.
.TP
\fBDISPLAY=\fP\fI:7 firefox\fP
Start \fIfirefox\fP running inside the xpra server.  No window will
appear.
.TP
\fBxpra list\fP
Show a list of xpra servers you have running on the current host.
.TP
\fBxpra attach\fP \fI:7\fP
Attach to the xpra server that is using local display number \fI:7\fP.
Any apps running on that server will appear on your screen.
.TP
\fBxpra attach\fP \fIssh:foo@frodo:7\fP
Use ssh to attach to the xpra server that is running on machine
\fIfrodo\fP as user \fIfoo\fP and using display \fI:7\fP.
Any apps running on that server will appear on your local screen.
.TP
\fBxpra start\fP \fI:7\fP \fB&& DISPLAY=\fP\fI:7\fP \fBscreen\fP
Start an xpra server and a \fBscreen\fP(1) session.  If any of the
applications inside screen attempt to use X, they will be directed to
the xpra server.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DISPLAYS
Understanding the basic idea of displays is critical to using xpra
successfully.

The idea comes from standard X.  If you have multiple X servers
running on the same host, then there has to be some way to distinguish
them.  X does this by assigning each server a small, unique integer
called (perhaps confusingly) its "display".  In the common case of a
desktop machine that has only one X server running, that server uses
display ":0" (or sometimes you'll see ":0.0", which is effectively the
same).  When an application starts under X, it needs to know how to
find the right X server to use; it does this by checking the
environment variable \fB$DISPLAY\fP.

Xpra faces a similar problem \(em there may be multiple xpra servers
running on the same host, as well as well as multiple X servers.  It
solves this problem by re-using X's solution \(em each xpra server has
a display associated with it.  This display functions as both an X
display (for when xpra is talking to X applications) and as an
identifier by which xpra clients (like \fBxpra attach\fP) can locate
the xpra server.

When starting an xpra server, you must specify the name of the display
to use.  To do this, simply pick any number you like and stick a colon
in front of it. For instance :7, :12, and :3117 are all valid display
names.  Just keep in mind that:
.IP \(bu
Every X or xpra server that is running on a single machine must use a
different display name.  If you pick a number that is already in use
then xpra will not work.
.IP \(bu
The first few numbers (0, 1, 2) are commonly used by real X servers.
.IP \(bu
Everyone who connects to a given machine using \fBssh\fP(1) with X
forwarding enabled will also use a display number; ssh generally picks
numbers near ten (10, 11, 12, ...).
.PP
When specifying an xpra server to a client program like \fBxpra
attach\fP or \fBxpra stop\fP, then you can use a display of the form
\fB:\fP\fINUMBER\fP to refer to a server on the local host, or one of
the form \fBssh:\fP\fI[USER@]HOST\fP\fB:\fP\fINUMBER\fP to refer to a server
on a remote host; xpra will automatically connect to the remote host
using \fBssh\fP(1).  Generally, if you have only one xpra server
running on a machine, then you can omit the number entirely; \fBxpra
attach\fP alone will attach to the lone xpra server on the current
machine regardless of its number, \fBxpra attach ssh:frodo\fP will
similarly attach to the lone xpra server on a remote machine.

If the xpra server was given the \fB\-\-bind\-tcp\fP option when
started (which is a security risk unless the \fB\-\-password\-file\fP
option is used), then you can also connect to it using a display of
the form \fBtcp:HOST:PORT\fP. (Notice that \fBssh:\fP takes an optional
\fIdisplay\fP number, while \fBtcp:\fP takes a required \fIport\fP
number.)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS xpra start
This command starts a new xpra server, including any necessary setup.
.SS xpra attach
This command attachs to a running xpra server, and forwards any
applications using that server to appear on your current screen.
.SS xpra detach
Detaches the given xpra display.
.SS xpra screenshot
Takes a screenshot and saves it to the filename specified.
Note: screenshots can only be taken when a client is attached.
.SS xpra version
Queries the server version and prints it out.
Note: older servers may not support this feature.
.SS xpra info
Queries the server for version, status and statistics.
Note: older servers may not support this feature.
.SS xpra stop
This command attachs to a running xpra server, and requests that it
terminate immediately.  This generally causes any applications using
that server to terminate as well.
.SS xpra list
This command finds all xpra servers that have been started by the
current user on the current machine, and lists them.
.SS xpra upgrade
This command starts a new xpra server, but instead of creating it from
scratch, it attaches to another existing server, tells it to exit, and
takes over managing the applications that it was managing before.  As
the name suggests, the main use case is to replace a server running
against an older version of xpra with a newer version, without having
to restart your session.  Any currently-running \fBxpra attach\fP
command will exit and need to be restarted.
.SS xpra shadow
This command shadows an existing X11 display. Note that this mode of
operation uses screenscraping which is far less efficient. Using a
video encoder (x264 or vpx) is highly recommended for this mode of
operation.

.SS Important Note
Some platforms and package managers may choose to only build the client
and not the server. In this case, only the \fBattach\fP subcommand will
be available.

.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Displays xpra's version number.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP
Displays a summary of command line usage.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP \fIFILTER1,FILTER2,...\fP, \fB\-\-debug\fP=\fIFILTER1,FILTER2,...\fP
Enable debug logging.  The special value \fBall\fP enables all
debugging; alternatively, debugging logs for particular subsystems can be
enabled by specifying one or more filters (separated by commas).  In
general, check the source to determine filter names \(em but they will
look something like \fBxpra.protocol.raw\fP or \fBwimpiggy\fP
(wimpiggy is the name of one of xpra's underlying libraries).  A
filter like \fBxpra.protocol.raw\fP is more specific than one like
\fBxpra.protocol\fP. Additionally, logging can be disabled for a
specific subsystem by prefixing a minus sign to its name, like so:
\fB\-\-debug\fP=\fIall,-wimpiggy\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-mmap\fP
Disables memory mapped pixel data transfer.
By default it is normally enabled automatically if the server and the
client reside on the same filesystem namespace.
This method of data transfer offers much lower overheads
and reduces both CPU consumption and context switches.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-windows\fP
Tells the server not to send any window data,
only notifications and bell events will be forwarded - if they
are enabled.
\fB\-\-no\-clipboard\fP
Disables clipboard synchronization.
If used on the server, no clients will be able to use clipboard
synchronization at all. If used on the client, only this particular
connection will ignore clipboard data from the server.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-pulseaudio\fP
Disables the starting of a pulseaudio server with the session.
.TP
\fB\-\-pulseaudio\-command\fP=\fISERVER START COMMAND\fP
Specifies the pulseaudio command to use to start the pulseaudio
server, unless disabled with \fB\-\-no\-pulseaudio\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-session\-name\fP=\fIVALUE\fP
Sets the name of this session. This value may be used in
notifications, utilities, tray menu, etc.
Setting this value on the server provides a default value which
may be overridden on the client.
.TP
\fB\-\-encoding\fP=\fIENCODING\fP
This specifies the image encoding to use,
there are a number of encodings supported:
\fBjpeg\fP, \fBpng\fP, \fBrgb24\fP, \fBvpx\fP and \fBx264\fP
(some may not be available in your environment).
The default is generally \fBpng\fP, if available.
\fBpng\fP is compressed and lossless, the most efficient lossless
encoding.
\fBrgb24\fP (rather inefficient, it is compressed with zlib).
\fBwebp\fP can be useful for graphical applications, and is
generally better than jpeg.
\fBjpeg\fP can be useful for graphical applications.
\fBvpx\fP and \fBx264\fP are both lossy and are
very efficient with graphics or high framerate applications,
\fBx264\fP is also very usable with text.

When specifying this option on the server, it will act as default
for clients that do not specify which encoding they want to use.

\fBjpeg\fP and \fBpng\fP require the Python Imaging Library.
\fBvpx\fP and \fBx264\fP require their respective shared libraries.
.TP
\fB\-\-socket\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP
Location where to write and look for the Xpra socket files.
Defaults to "~/.xpra". It may also be specified using the
XPRA_SOCKET_DIR environment variable.

When using the socket-dir option, it is generally necessary to specify
socket-dir on all following commands, for xpra to work with the
open sessions. Mixing different socket-dir options is not
recommended.

By specifying a shared directory this can be coupled with the
mmap-group option to connect Xpra sessions across user accounts.

.SS Options for start, upgrade
.TP
\fB\-\-start\-child\fP=\fICMD\fP
After starting the server, runs the command \fICMD\fP using the
default shell.  The command is run with its $DISPLAY set to point to
the newly-started server.  This option may be given multiple times to
start multiple children.
.TP
\fB\-\-exit\-with\-children\fP
This option may only be used if \fB\-\-start\-child\fP is also
given.  If it is given, then the xpra server will monitor the status
of the children started by \fB\-\-start\-child\fP, and will
automatically terminate itself when the last of them has exited.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-daemon\fP
By default, the xpra server puts itself into the background,
i.e. 'daemonizes', and redirects its output to a log file.  This
prevents that behavior (useful mostly for debugging).
.TP
\fB\-\-use\-display\fP
Use an existing display rather than starting one with xvfb.
You are responsible for starting the display yourself.
This can also be used to rescue an existing display whose
xpra server instance crashed.
.TP
\fB\-\-xvfb\fP=\fICMD\fP
When starting the server, xpra starts a virtual X server to run the
clients on. By default, this is 'Xvfb'. If your Xvfb is installed in a
funny location, or you want to use some other virtual X server, then
this switch allows you to specify how to run your preferred X server
executable. The default value used is:
\fIXvfb +extension Composite \-screen 0 3840x2560x24+32 \-nolisten tcp \-noreset  \-auth $XAUTHORITY\fP

This can also be used to specify Xdummy as an alternative to Xvfb,
this requires Xorg server version 1.12 or later and the dummy driver
version 0.3.5 or later. For more information, see:
https://xpra.org/Xdummy.html

.TP
\fB\-\-bind\-tcp\fP=\fI[HOST]:PORT\fP
The xpra server always listens for connections on a local Unix domain
socket, and supports local connections with the \fB:7\fP-style display
address, and remote connections with the \fBssh:frodo:7\fP-style
display address. If you want, it can also listen for connections on a
raw TCP socket. This behavior is enabled with \fB\-\-bind-\-tcp\fP. If
the host portion is omitted, then 127.0.0.1 (localhost) will be
used. If you wish to accept connections on all interfaces, pass
0.0.0.0 for the host portion.

Using this switch without using the password option is not recommended,
and is a major security risk (especially when passing 0.0.0.0)!
Anyone at all may connect to this port and access your session.
Use it only if you have special needs, and understand the consequences
of your actions.

.SS Options for start, upgrade and attach
.TP
\fB\-\-password\-file\fP=\fIFILENAME\fP
This allows sessions to be secured with a password stored in a text
file. You should use this if you use the \fB\-\-bind-\-tcp\fP option.
If this is used on the server, it will reject any client connections
that do not provide the same password value.
.TP
\fB\-\-dpi\fP=\fIVALUE\fP
The 'dots per inch' value that client applications should try to honour.
This numeric value should be in the range 10 to 500 to be useful.
Many applications will only read this value when starting up,
so connecting to an existing session started with a different DPI
value may not have the desired effect.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-cursors\fP
Disable forwarding of custom application mouse cursors.
Client applications may change the mouse cursor at any time, which
will cause the new cursor's pixels to be sent to the client each time.
This disables the feature.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-notifications\fP
Disable forwarding of system notifications.
System notifications require the xpra server to have its own instance
of a dbus daemon, if it is missing a warning will be printed on
startup. This switch disables the feature entirely, and avoids
the warning.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-system\-tray\fP
Disable forwarding of system tray icons.
This feature requires client support and may not be available on all
platforms.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-bell\fP
Disable forwarding of the system bell.

.SS Options for attach
.TP
\fB-z\fP\fILEVEL\fP, \fB\-\-compress\fP=\fILEVEL\fP
Select the level of compression xpra will use when transmitting data
over the network. Higher levels of compression transmit less data over
the network, but use more CPU power. Valid options are between 0
(meaning no compression) and 9, inclusive. Higher levels take
progressively more CPU while giving diminishing returns in terms of
actual compression achieved; the default is 3, which gives a
reasonable trade-off in general.
You generally do not need to use this option,
the default value should be adequate in almost all cases.

This compression is not used on pixel data (except
when using the \fBrgb24\fP encoding).
.TP
\fB\-\-jpeg\-quality\fP=\fIVALUE\fP
Deprecated, use \fB\-\-quality\fP:
.TP

\fB\-\-quality\fP=\fIVALUE\fP
This option sets the image compression quality of pixel data sent by
the server when using some lossy encodings (\fBjpeg\fP, \fBwebp\fP or \fBx264\fP),
First, one of those lossy encodings must be enabled with \fB\-\-encoding\fP.
The valid values range from 1 (lowest quality, high compression -
generally unusable) to 100 (highest quality, low compression - not
particularly useful).
Note that the x264 encoding normally uses a variable quality
determined by the connection's performance, this option forces
a fixed quality setting to be used instead.
.TP
\fB\-\-speed\fP=\fISPEED\fP
This option sets the x264 encoding speed. Slower compresses more, faster
will give better latency.
The system normally uses a variable speed, this option forces
a fixed speed setting to be used instead.
.TP
\fB\-\-auto\-refresh\-delay\fP=\fIDELAY\fP
This option sets a delay after which the windows are automatically
refreshed using a high quality picture setting (95%).
The delay is a floating-point number and is in seconds.
This option is enabled by default with a delay of 1 second.
This option is only relevant when using a lossy encoding
(\fBjpeg\fP, \fBwebp\fP, \fBx264\fP or \fBvpx\fP).
.TP
\fB\-\-max\-bandwidth\fP=\fIBW\fP
Specify the link's maximal receive bandwidth. Xpra will adjust the
JPEG quality to match this bandwidth. Specify 0.0 (default) to disable.
(requires \fBjpeg\fP encoding)
.TP
\fB\-\-key\-shortcut\fP=\fIkey:action\fP
Can be specified multiple times to add multiple key shortcuts.
These keys will be caught by the client and trigger the action specified
and the key presses will not be passed to the server.
.br
The \fBkey\fP specification may include keyboard modifiers in the form
 \fB[modifier\+]*key\fP, for example: \fIShift+F10\fP or \fIShift+Control+B\fP
.br
The following \fBaction\fPs are currently defined:
.RS
.IP \fBquit\fP
disconnects the xpra client
.IP \fBvoid\fP
does not do anything, and can therefore be used to prevent
certain key combinations from ever being sent to the server.
.IP \fBrefresh_window\fP
forces the currently focused window to be refreshed.
.IP \fBrefresh_all_windows\fP
forces all windows to be refreshed.
.RE
.PP
If no shortcuts are defined on the command line,
the following default one will be used:
.br
\fIMeta+Shift+F4:quit\fP
.TP
\fB\-\-readonly\fP
Read only mode prevents all keyboard and mouse activity from being sent
to the server.
.TP
\fB\-\-enable-sharing\fP
Allow more than one client to connect to the same session.
This must be enabled on both the server and all co-operating clients
to function.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-keyboard\-sync\fP
Disables keyboard state synchronization. Normally the key presses
and key release events are sent to the server as they occur so that
the server can maintain a consistent keyboard state.
Using this option can prevent keys from repeating unexpectedly on
high latency links but it may also disrupt applications which access
the keyboard directly (games, etc).
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-speaker\fP
Disable sound output forwarding support. Application sound output will
not be sent to the client(s).
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-microphone\fP
Disable sound input forwarding support. Application sound input will
not be sent from the client(s) to the server.
.TP
\fB\-\-speaker\-codec\fP=\fICODEC\fP and \fB\-\-microphone\-codec\fP=\fICODEC\fP
Specify the codec to use for sound output (speaker) or input (microphone).
You may specify more than one to define the preferred order,
use the special value 'help' to get a list of options.
When unspecified, all the available codecs are allowed and the first one is used.
.TP
\fB\-\-title\-suffix\fP=\fIVALUE\fP
Sets the portion of text which is appended to the windows' title.
This option is deprecated and \fB\-\-title\fP should be used instead.
.TP
\fB\-\-title\fP\=\fIVALUE\fP
Sets the text shown as window title.
The string supplied can make use of remote metadata placeholders
which will be populated at runtime with the values from the
remote server. ie:
 \f\@title\@\fP will be replaced by the remote window's title,
 \f\@client-machine\@\fP will be replaced by the remote server's
hostname.

The default value used is "@title@ on @client-machine@".
.TP
\fB\-\-window\-icon\fP=\fIFILENAME\fP
Path to the default image which will be used for all windows.
This icon may be shown in the window's bar, its iconified
state or task switchers. This depends on the operating system,
the window manage and the application may override this too.
\fB\-\-no\-tray\fP
Disables the system tray. Not available on OSX since the dock
icon is always shown.
\fB\-\-delay\-tray\fP
Waits for the first window or notification to appear before
showing the system tray. (posix only)
\fB\-\-tray\-icon\fP=\fIFILENAME\fP
Specifies the icon shown in the dock/tray.
By default it uses a simple default 'xpra' icon.
(on Microsoft Windows, the icon must be in \fBico\fP format)
.TP
\fB\-\-mmap\-group\fP
Sets the mmap file's gid to match the socket file's gid and sets
the mmap file's permissions to 660.
This is necessary to share the mmap file across user accounts.
\fB\-\-enable\-pings\fP
The client and server will exchange ping and echo packets
which are used to gather latency statistics.
Those statistics can be seen using the "xpra info" command.
[\fB\-\-encryption\fP=\fICIPHER\fP]
Specifies the cipher to use for securing the connection from
prying eyes. This is only really useful with the \fB--bind-tcp\fP option.
This option requires the use of the \fB--password-file\fP option.
The only cipher supported at present is \fIAES\fP, if the client
requests encryption it will be used by both the client and server
for all communication after the initial password verification,
but only if the server supports this feature too.

.SS Options for attach, stop
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh\fP\=fICMD\fP
When you use an \fBssh:\fP address to connect to a remote display,
xpra runs \fBssh\fP(1) to make the underlying connection. By default,
it does this by running the command "ssh". If your ssh program is in
an unusual location, has an unusual name, or you want to pass special
options to change ssh's behavior, then you can use the \fB\-\-ssh\fP
switch to tell xpra how to run ssh. For example, if you want to use
arcfour encryption, then you should run

.\" I'm sure this is completely the wrong thing to do here, but it
.\" produces fine output in the terminal, at least:
.RS
.RS
\fBxpra attach \-\-ssh\fP=\fI"ssh \-c arcfour" ssh:frodo:7\fP

.RE
(\fINote:\fP don't bother to enable ssh compression; this
is redundant with xpra's own compression, and will just waste your
CPU. See also xpra's \fB\-\-compress\fP switch.)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-remote\-xpra\fP=\fICMD\fP
When connecting to a remote server over ssh, xpra needs to be able to
find and run the xpra executable on the remote host.  If this
executable is in a non-standard location, or requires special
environment variables to be set before it can run, then accomplishing
this may be non-trivial.  If running \fBxpra attach ssh:something\fP
fails because it cannot find the remote xpra, then you can use this
option to specify how to run xpra on the remote host.

That said, this option should not be needed in normal usage, as xpra
tries quite hard to work around the above problems.  If you find
yourself needing it often, then that may indicate a bug that we would
appreciate hearing about.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBDISPLAY\fP
\fBxpra start \-\-start\-child\fP=\fI...\fP sets this variable in the
environment of the child to point to the xpra display.

\fBxpra attach\fP, on the other hand, uses this variable to determine
which display the remote applications should be shown on.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
\fIxpra.conf\fP stores default values for most options.
There is a global config file in \fI/etc\fP or \fI/usr/local/etc\fP,
and each user may override it using \fI.xpra/xpra.conf\fP.
Xpra uses the directory \fI~/.xpra\fP to store a number of files.
(the examples below are given for the display \fI:7\fP)
.TP
\fI~/.xpra/:7\fP
The unix domain socket that clients use to contact the xpra server.
.TP
\fI~/.xpra/:7.log\fP
When run in daemon mode (the default), the xpra server directs all
output to this file.  This includes all debugging output, if debugging
is enabled.
.TP
\fI~/.xpra/run-xpra\fP
A shell script that, when run, starts up xpra with the correct python
interpreter, PYTHONPATH, PATH, location of the main xpra script, etc.
Automatically generated by \fBxpra start\fP and used by \fBxpra
attach\fP (see also the discussion of \fB\-\-remote\-xpra\fP).
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH BUGS
Xpra has no test suite.

Xpra does not fully handle all aspects of the X protocol; for
instance, fancy input features like pressure-sensitivity on tablets,
some window manager hints, and probably other more obscure parts of the
X protocol. It does, however, degrade gracefully, and patches for each
feature would be gratefully accepted.

The xpra server allocates an over-large framebuffer when using Xvfb;
this wastes memory, and can cause applications to misbehave (e.g.,
by letting menus go off-screen).  Conversely, if the framebuffer is ever
insufficiently large, clients will misbehave in other ways (e.g.,
input events will be misdirected). This is not a problem when using
Xdummy, see the \fB\-\-xvfb\fP= switch for details.

The need to choose display numbers by hand is annoying.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Send any questions or bugs reports to <antoine@devloop.org.uk>.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBscreen\fP(1)
\fBwinswitch_applet\fP(1)
